DEVX-2410 / DEVX-2411: automate ccloud setup; add Confluent Cloud ksqlDB; DOCS-6171: screenshots (#320)
confluentinc/cp-demo: docs/index.rst

      ccloud login --save

#. At this point, you have two options for running the |ccloud| portion of this tutorial.

>    The first option is to manually complete all the steps in the following sections, which we recommend if you are new to |ccloud| and |cp|: :ref:`cp-demo-ccloud-stack`, :ref:`cp-demo-telemetry-reporter`, :ref:`cp-demo-replicator-to-ccloud`, and :ref:`cp-demo-metrics-api`.

Reviewer: Should the `Cleanup` section be mentioned here?

Author: @mikebin agree, and fixed.  Thank you.

      ccloud login --save

> #. The remainder of the |ccloud| portion of this tutorial must be completed sequentially. We recommend that you manually complete all the steps in the following sections. However, you may also run the script :devx-cp-demo:`scripts/ccloud/create-ccloud-workflow.sh|scripts/ccloud/create-ccloud-workflow.sh` which automates those steps; this option is recommended for users who have run this tutorial before and want to quickly bring it up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The remainder of the |ccloud| portion of this tutorial must be completed sequentially. We recommend that you manually complete all the steps in the following sections. However, you may also run the script :devx-cp-demo:`scripts/ccloud/create-ccloud-workflow.sh|scripts/ccloud/create-ccloud-workflow.sh` which automates those steps. This option is recommended for users who have run this tutorial before and want to quickly bring it up.
```

   .. code-block:: text

      (cd scripts/ccloud/ && ./create-ccloud-workflow.sh)

.. _cp-demo-ccloud-stack:

ccloud-stack
------------

Use the :ref:`ccloud-stack` for a quick, automated way to create resources in |ccloud|.  Executed with a single command, it uses the |ccloud| CLI to:

-  Create a new environment.
-  Create a new service account.
-  Create a new Kafka cluster and associated credentials.
-  Enable |sr-ccloud| and associated credentials.

> -  Create ACLs with wildcard for the service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  Create ACLs with a wildcard for the service account.
```

-  Create a new ksqlDB app and associated credentials
-  Generate a local configuration file with all above connection information.

> #. Get a bash library of useful functions for interacting with |ccloud| (one of which is ``cloud-stack``). This library is community-supported and is not supported by Confluent.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Get a bash library of useful functions for interacting with |ccloud| (one of which is ``cloud-stack``). This library is community-supported and not supported by Confluent.

```

   .. code-block:: text

      curl -sS -o ccloud_library.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/examples/latest/utils/ccloud_library.sh

> #. Using ``ccloud_library.sh`` which you downloaded in the previous step, create a new ``ccloud-stack`` (see :ref:`ccloud-stack` for advanced options). It creates real resources in |ccloud| and takes a few minutes to complete. The ``true`` flag adds creation of a ksqlDB application in |ccloud|, which has hourly charges even if you are not actively using it.

Reviewer 2: should this be highlighted as a Caution? (charges)

Author: There are several other places in the docs where this is called out with more emphasis, so IMO don't think it needs to be repeated here.

      source delta_configs/env.delta

.. _cp-demo-telemetry-reporter:

Telemetry Reporter
------------------

> Enable :ref:`telemetry_reporter` on the on-prem cluster, and configure it to send metrics to the |ccloud| instance created above..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable :ref:`telemetry_reporter` on the on-prem cluster and configure it to send metrics to the |ccloud| instance created above..
```

Reviewer 2: Since this isn't part of our standard public docs, this may not apply. However, our style is to use `on premises` instead of `on-prem` or `on prem` in docs. See https://confluentinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/161743785/Style+Guide+for+Confluent+Documentation. if you decide to use the approved style, do a search and replace (there are a lot of locations in the doc).

Author: @tobydrake7 the source is different but it all lands in docs.confluent.io, so if docs team prefers `on premises`, I can switch.  Please clarify if this guidance is merely suggested (in which case I will leave as-is) or strongly preferred (in which case I will update to `on premises`).

Reviewer 2: > @tobydrake7 the source is different but it all lands in docs.confluent.io, so if docs team prefers `on premises`, I can switch. Please clarify if this guidance is merely suggested (in which case I will leave as-is) or strongly preferred (in which case I will update to `on premises`).

The doc team strongly prefers consistency and following the style guide. However, you can follow your heart on this. If you'd rather remain somewhat informal with how everyone says it (`on-prem`), in this tutorial type of document, go ahead. You know your audience for these things. If they look at `on premises` and think you're trying to use big words or something, use on-prem. 👍

Author: @tobydrake7 got it.  Lots of this is subjective but I'm in the `on-prem` camp, so I will leave it as is.  Thank you.

> #. Create a new ``Cloud`` API key and secret to authenticate with |ccloud|. These credentials will be used by the Telemetry Reporter and used by the Metrics API, which can be used for hosted on-prem clusters as well as |ccloud| clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create a new ``Cloud`` API key and secret to authenticate with |ccloud|. These credentials are used by the Telemetry Reporter and the Metrics API, which can be used for hosted on-prem clusters as well as |ccloud| clusters.
```

Reviewer 2: suggest: `..., which can be used for hosted` make it clear what `which` means here, does it mean the Metrics API or does it mean the API key and secret. Also, you could make this two sentences to be clearer. Put a period after Metrics API and starte the next sentence with the subject.

Author: Got it, I reworked this sentence to simplify it

      kafka1            | 	confluent.telemetry.api.key = QX7X4VA4DFJTTOIA
      kafka1            | 	confluent.telemetry.api.secret = [hidden]

.. _cp-demo-replicator-to-ccloud:

|crep| to |ccloud|
------------------

Deploy |crep| to copy data from the on-prem cluster to the |ak| cluster running in |ccloud|.
It is configured to copy from the |ak| topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` (on-prem) to the cloud topic ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` in |ccloud|. 

> The Replicator instance is running on the existing connect worker in the on-prem cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Replicator instance is running on the existing Connect worker in the on-prem cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: always capitalize `Connect` but not connectors or worker

      docker-compose exec tools bash -c "confluent iam rolebinding create \
          --principal User:connectorSubmitter \
          --role ResourceOwner \
          --resource Connector:replicate-topic-to-ccloud \
          --kafka-cluster-id $KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID \
          --connect-cluster-id connect-cluster"

> #. View the |crep| :devx-cp-demo:`configuration file|scripts/connectors/submit_replicator_to_ccloud_config.sh`. Note that it uses the local connect cluster (the origin site), so the |crep| configuration has overrides for the producer. The configuration parameters that use variables are read from the env variables that you sourced in an earlier step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. View the |crep| :devx-cp-demo:`configuration file|scripts/connectors/submit_replicator_to_ccloud_config.sh`. Note that it uses the local connect cluster (the origin site), so the |crep| configuration has overrides for the producer. The configuration parameters that use variables are read from the environment variables you sourced in an earlier step.
```

      CURRENT_TIME_MINUS_1HR=$(docker-compose exec tools date -Is -d '-1 hour' | tr -d '\r')
      CURRENT_TIME_PLUS_1HR=$(docker-compose exec tools date -Is -d '+1 hour' | tr -d '\r')

> #. For the on-prem metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_onprem.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` in the on-prem cluster (this is just one example—for examples of all the queryable metrics, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. For the on-prem metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_onprem.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` in the on-prem cluster (for all queryable metrics examples, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).
```

        ]
      }

> #. For the |ccloud| metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_ccloud.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` in |ccloud| (this is just one example—for examples of all the queryable metrics, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. For the on-prem metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_onprem.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed`` in the on-prem cluster (for all queryable metrics examples, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).
```

> #. For the |ccloud| metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_ccloud.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` in |ccloud| (this is just one example—for examples of all the queryable metrics, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. For the |ccloud| metrics: view the :devx-cp-demo:`metrics query file|scripts/ccloud/metrics_query_ccloud.json`, which requests ``io.confluent.kafka.server/received_bytes`` for the topic ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` in |ccloud| (for all queryable metrics examples, see `Metrics API <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/monitoring/metrics-api.html>`__).
```

        "data": [
          {
            "timestamp": "2020-12-14T20:00:00Z",
            "value": 1690522,
            "metric.label.topic": "wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica"
          }
        ]
      }

.. _cp-demo-ccloud-ksqldb:

|ccloud| ksqlDB
---------------

> This section creates queries in the |ccloud| ksqlDB application that processes data from the ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` topic that |crep| copied from the on-prem cluster.
> You must have completed :ref:`cp-demo-ccloud-stack` before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows how to create queries in the |ccloud| ksqlDB application that processes data from the ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica`` topic that |crep| copied from the on-prem cluster.
You must have completed :ref:`cp-demo-ccloud-stack` before proceeding.
```

#. Get the |ccloud| ksqlDB application ID and save it to the parameter ``ksqlDBAppId``.

   .. code-block:: text

      ksqlDBAppId=$(ccloud ksql app list | grep "$KSQLDB_ENDPOINT" | awk '{print $1}')

#. Verify the |ccloud| ksqlDB application has transitioned from ``PROVISIONING`` to ``UP`` state. This may take a few minutes.

   .. code-block:: text

      ccloud ksql app describe $ksqlDBAppId -o json

#. Configure ksqlDB ACLs to permit the ksqlDB application to read from ``wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica``.

   .. code-block:: text

      ccloud ksql app configure-acls $ksqlDBAppId wikipedia.parsed.ccloud.replica

#. Create new ksqlDB queries from the :devx-cp-demo:`scripts/ccloud/statements.sql|scripts/ccloud/statements.sql` file.

   .. literalinclude:: ../scripts/ccloud/submit_ksqldb_queries

#. Log into `Confluent Cloud <https://confluent.cloud>`__ UI and view the ksqlDB application Flow.

   .. figure:: images/ccloud_ksqldb_flow.png

#. View the events in the ksqlDB streams in |ccloud|.

   .. figure:: images/ccloud_ksqldb_stream.png

> #. The ksqlDB application in |ccloud| has hourly charges even if you are not actively using it, so after you are finished, proceed to :ref:`cp-demo-ccloud-cleanup`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Go to :ref:`cp-demo-ccloud-cleanup` to clean up the demo. Important: The ksqlDB application in |ccloud| has hourly charges even if you are not actively using it.
```
